added filtering page (#4)
geostyler/geostyler-cookbook: _pages/Filtering.md

---
title: Filter
author: Krishna Lodha
date: 2022-06-07
category: functions
layout: post
---

# Filtering

> Filtering allows users to create conditions based on `columns` available in the data. Depending upon `data type` of `column` (e.g. number, boolean, string, etc. ) user can select operators and use it with data available within column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filtering allows users to create conditions based on _attributes_ available in the data. Depending on the _data type_ of the _attribute_ (e.g. number, boolean, string, etc. ) users can select operators and combine it with the _attributes_ available in the data.

```

> Users can also add, remove, convert one filter type into another using UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can also add, remove, and convert filter types into others using the UI.

```

![change_filter]( ../images/change_filter.png "change_filter")

# Comparison Filter (Default)

> Comparison filtering involves assigning column with some value and getting results out of it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Comparison filtering involves comparing attributes with some value and only getting results out of it for which the comparison evaluates to true. 

```

> e.g. For given data we’ll check what all `pop_min` is less than 500 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
e.g. For given data we’ll check that all `pop_min` is less than 500.

```

![Basic filter]( ../images/basic_filter.png "Basic filter")

> Here users select `column name` next to column name [Geostyler](https://geostyler.org/) automatically adds `data type` and finally user can give input value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here users select `attribute name` next to attribute name. [Geostyler](https://geostyler.org/) automatically adds the `data type` and finally users can give input values. 

```

> - For numeric data type, operators such as `<,>,<=,>=,==,!=` are allowed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For numeric data, operators such as `<,>,<=,>=,==,!=` are allowed

```

> - For String data type, operators such as `==,*=,!=` are allowed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For String data, operators such as `==,*=,!=` are allowed

```

> For `string data type` [Geostyler](https://geostyler.org/) automatically detects all unique values so user can simply select it from dropdown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For `string data`, [Geostyler](https://geostyler.org/) automatically detects all unique values so users can simply select it from a dropdown.

```

![string_selector]( ../images/string_selector.png "string_selector")

# AND Filter

>  [Geostyler](https://geostyler.org/) allows combining multiple conditions together using boolean operators. Once AND filter is selected from list, users can then select further filters which again can be `and`, `or`, `comparison`, `not`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Geostyler](https://geostyler.org/) allows combining multiple conditions together using boolean operators. Once an AND filter is selected from the list, users can select further filters which again can be `and`, `or`, `comparison`, `not`.

```

![and_filter]( ../images/and_filter.gif "and_filter")

> Data of features satisfying all conditions listed in AND filter, are visible with the selected style.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data of features satisfying all conditions listed in an AND filter, are visible with the selected style.

```

In this example we check two conditions

1. `adm0name` == `India`
2. `pop_min` < 50000

![and_filter_in_use]( ../images/and_filter_in_use.png "and_filter_in_use")

> as per condition, we get **10** features here 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as per condition, we get **10** features here.

```

# OR Filter

> Using `OR` Operator, gets the results which follows any of the given conditions. users can create combination of `and`, `or`, `comparison`, `not` conditions as per need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `OR` Operator, gets the results which follows any of the given conditions. Users can create combinations of `and`, `or`, `comparison`, `not` conditions as per need.

```

![and_or]( ../images/and_or.png "and_or")

Data of features satisfying any conditions listed in OR filter, are visible with the selected style.

In this example we check two conditions

1. `adm0name` == `India`
2. `pop_min` < 50000

![or_filter_in_use]( ../images/or_filter_in_use.png "or_filter_in_use")

> as per condition, we get **3873** features here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as per condition, we get **3873** features here.

```

# NOT Filter

> `NOT` filter works like an *anti-comparison* filter. As we do in `comparison` filter, we create a condition over here and all features which doesn’t follow that condition will be styled. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`NOT` filter works like an *anti-comparison* filter. As we do in `comparison` filter, we create a condition over here and all features which don’t follow that condition will be styled. 

```

>  users can create combination of `and`, `or`, `comparison`, `not` conditions as per need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can create combination of `and`, `or`, `comparison`, `not` conditions as per need.

```

> Data of features not satisfying condition listed in NOT filter, are visible with the selected style.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data of features not satisfying the condition listed in NOT filter, are visible with the selected style.

```
